Prayer for the Long Life of the Third Dodrupchen, Jigme Tenpai Nyima
by Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo

Oṃ svasti-siddhaṃ!

kunzang jikme drubpé yeshe trul
Ever-perfect manifestation of the fearless siddha’s wisdom,
tenpé nyima gyalwé nyugu ché
'Sun of the Teachings', great burgeon of the victorious ones,
trinlé küntu khyabpé palden pa
Possessing the splendour of enlightened activity that is all-pervasive—
khétsün zangpö chok tu tsozhé sol
Remain, I pray, as the best of the learned, ethical and kind-hearted.

dorjé zukku chimé gönpor ten
May your vajra form-kāya remain as steadfast as the immortal protector,
chok lé namgyal lek sung si na nyen
Your excellent speech, triumphant over all, resound throughout existence,
yizhin döpa jowé khorlö tuk
And the wish-fulfilling wheel of your wisdom mind1
kalpa gyatsor mi yo tenpar zhuk
Remain stable and unwavering throughout an infinite ocean of aeons!

tsul né sen sam gompé tar sön ching
Through perfecting the observance of discipline, study, contemplation and meditation,
rabjam ché tsö tsompé getsen gyi
And through the signs of excellence in exposition, debate and composition,
tubpé ten la tönpa nyipa yi
May all be auspicious for your excellent deeds as a second Guide
lek dzé sa sum gyepé tashi tsol
To the Sage’s teachings to spread throughout the threefold world.

When the supreme nirmāṇakāya emanation of the precious guru and lord of siddhas appeared like
a blossoming white lotus, I, Khyentse Wangpo, the subject who delights the Lake-Born Guru,
offered these verses for longevity connected to the bestowal of the name Kunzang Jigme
Tenpai Nyima Trinlé Kunkhyab Palzangpo together with the presentation of an auspicious scarf
of white silk and images, equal in number to the ten powers, representing the immortal
vajra body, speech and mind. Pray, let the gurus, victorious ones and their heirs grant their
blessings, so that all these points of aspiration may be fulfilled according to our wishes.

| Translated by Adam Pearcey, 2022.

Source: 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. rdo grub sku phreng gsum pa'i zhabs brtan kun
bzang 'jigs med ma. In 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang po'i bka' 'bum, Vol. 1: 425-426.
Khams sde dge rdzong sar dgon: Rdzong sar blo gros phun tshogs, 2020.

Version: 20220404
↑ This verse subtly incorporates references to the three deities of long life: Amitāyus, Uṣṇīṣavijayā
and Tārā, Wish-Fulfilling Wheel.